Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are
about to be blessed by the teaching
ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to
be an enlightening time in God's word,
renewing your mind and transforming your
life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray
for you that you are established in all
the truths of God's word taught today.
Let's get right into it.
>> Welcome back to the Pluros podcast. This
is your daily dose of God's word
transforming you to fulfill God's
purpose for your life. Now, we're
looking at preservation in the newness
of life. We've already established from
all the earlier episodes that there is
such a thing as preservation available
in the newness of life. And it is
something that we ought to walk in. We
should know about it. We should be in
faith about it as we also see. We should
walk in it. Now the reason this is
important is every reality available to
us in the newness of life is important
for our growth and our walk in God's
purpose. If we are not given to
intentionally walking in all these
things we may miss out on how
effectively or what should be has what
is available to us in God's purpose for
our lives. So God has called us to his
purpose. Walking in the same requires
growth. It requires growth in the no
life that we have and we can only grow
when we know and we stand on what
belongs to us. So we are showing all the
things that are as in the new life that
we have in Christ. There is healing
available in the newness of life. There
is preservation also available in this
life. The way we establish this is by
understanding that this life is the life
God offered to man at the beginning that
will be fully consumated at the end. But
other than immortality and incorruption,
we have every other thing possible by
that life available today. So the
question is what is available to our
bodies? Healing. What is available to a
cosmos that is corrupt today? And the
answer is preservation because this is
relative to man. One of the examples we
pointed out is Acts 27. God's commitment
is to man. He made the world for him.
And so in dealing with the corrupt state
of the cosmos, the commitment to
preservation is to man primarily. It
could extend secondarily to every any
other entity, but is about man
primarily, the preservation of man as
the case was again I mentioned in Acts
chapter 27. With that established, we
looked at several instances that shows
that we can believe for preservation in
the newness of life. Like Matthew 8:23,
there were heavy winds. There was a
tempest and the Lord was asleep in the
boat. The disciples were fearful. They
woke the Lord up and he said, "Oh ye of
little faith, why did you fear?" And he
spoke, "Rebuke the wind and the sea."
And there was a great camp. From that
instance, we see that there's an
expectation that we can deal with sick
circumstances, instances where the world
is sick, where the cosmos is sick. We
can deal with them by God's power.
Another instance is Matthew 14. He was
walking on water and the winds were
burstous and Peter was afraid and began
to sing but the Lord remained in faith
helped Peter and asked him why did you
doubt oh you of little faith. So Peter
doubted in this instance in the earlier
instance Matthew 8 the disciples were
afraid. So we are seeing that the change
is not necessarily a change in
conviction is a change in their emotion
is a change we can say in their
reckoning or is a change in their
consciousness and is calling us to stay
in faith amidst changing circumstances.
We should remain in faith and exercise
his authority. We're going to get to how
do we effect it. We are just repeating
some things we have seen. We saw Matthew
21 the Lord speaking to the fig tree is
another instance of exercising authority
over the cosmos. Matthew 27, Paul being
delivered as well as the other people in
the boat, you know, from the storm that
happened as they were journeying. Then
we could mention other instances like
the Lord saying he could have been
delivered from his crucifixion by
praying to the father and him sending
angels. The devil telling the Lord that
God has promised to preserve and deliver
so he could jump down and he will not be
hot. Telling him to prove a point or to
walk in the flesh. And he did not deny
that power. He responded against the
temptation itself. He's not to tempt the
Lord his God. He's not to live his life
to prove a point. Is not to walk in the
flesh. There are other instances we saw.
We went back and saw Psalm 91. We saw
Psalm 34 and:7, Psalm 35:5 and 6, the
role of angels in preservation and
deliverance. We mentioned Genesis 19,
Lot being delivered also by the ministry
of angels. Genesis 48:15, Jacob pointing
to the role of angels in his
preservation. The angel who has redeemed
me from all evil. There is an abundance
of text that summits that there is
preservation in theness of life. Now to
the question, how do we walk in
preservation in the newness of life? One
thing is clear particularly from the
example of the Lord Jesus himself. We
walk in this by faith. All right? We
walk in this by faith. Look at the first
instance we saw Matthew 8:23. Then we
also look at Mark 4. He expected them to
exercise authority by faith. But we're
going to be looking at another important
fact that opens up our understanding of
faith even better. Something I wanted us
to see when we're studying healing. But
we didn't get to that. And I think it's
something we'll be able to see better as
we look at preservation in the newness
of life. The role of prayer and the
command of faith or should I let it
another way. The role of faith in prayer
and then the role of the command of
faith are different instances. These two
things are not supposed to be separated.
We are supposed to see them work hand in
hand. Now in this instance when there
was the great tempest, the Lord when he
was awoken by them was said to have
rebuked he rebuked
he rebuked the winds and the sea and
there was a great calm. That's what he
did. He rebuked the winds and the sea.
So this is not an instance of him
praying. There was no extended prayer of
any kind. There was just one command of
faith. He spoke is a classic example of
Mark 11:23:24. Whosoever shall say to
this mountain, "Be thou removed, be thou
cast into the sea, shall not doubt
things, but believes the things he say
shall come to pass. He will have what he
says." And that was very simple. He was
exercising the authority over the cosmos
by faith. The authority that we have
over the cosmos by faith, he simply
spoke. It was a command of faith and
that was it. Now, another instance where
the Lord was simply walking by faith is
Matthew chapter 14. This time, he didn't
even speak to it. He just continued
walking in faith. Matthew 14.
Which can also raise up the question
that could they have stayed in the
tempest knowing that they are both will
just keep going without anything because
they were just in faith about it. With
the likely answer, yes. Because in this
instance, they were walking. The Lord
was walking on the water. Peter said,
"Lord, if it is you, command me to come
on water." He said, "Come." And he came
down and he walked towards the Lord
Jesus. And when he saw that the wind was
brushed to us, he was afraid and
beginning to sink. He cried out. So it's
very likely the wind wasn't boisterous.
I don't think he would have wanted to
dare to go in the first place if he was
going to react this way. So it seems it
was the case that he subsequently became
boisterous and on that note he was
afraid and beginning to sink he said
Lord save me and the Lord stretch forth
his hand and caught him. That was all he
says oh you of little faith why did you
doubt? So he was in faith despite the
burst wind. He was calm he was unmoved.
He kept on going. He helped Peter and
they got back into the boats. Then the
wind ceased. The wind ceased. He didn't
say anything. He was just in faith and
the wind ceased. All right. So you could
also say it's an instance of command of
faith. The Lord was in faith. He was in
a rested state of faith and then that
was it. Could have happened in Matthew 8
like that. He was in a rested state of
faith. That was it. We could mention
faith exercises authority over the
cosmos by looking at Mark 11 or Matthew
21 when he spoke to the fig tree and it
was like it's not just because I'm God
who became man whosoever shall say to
this mountain it shall be done. Now the
context we know already of God's power
working is redemption. So it's not the
case of whosoever shall say just
anything like I choose to create another
world or I choose to become God. You
know that's ridiculous. So there's a
context when he says have faith in God
or have faith in Yahweh that you
understand is about God and what he has
made available in his life by his power
by redemption and anything possible by
that is what we can believe for. Faith
is in the context of the newness of
life. You could also say faith is in the
context of redemption. But maybe more
accurately faith is in the context of
the newness of life. God offered his
life to man, told man to receive it by
faith. We have seen that before when we
saw Proverbs 3. The tree of life is
God's truth which we are supposed to
partake of by speaking. Proverbs 18. So
faith was meant to be exercised in the
light of God's life. Not just at one
instance to receive it but also to walk
in it. You remember Proverbs 3 and:1 18
says wisdom is a tree of life to those
who receive and happy are those who
retain. We're supposed to receive that
life and continue to walk in it as well.
Faith is not for just anything. It has
its context and it is the life of God
because that life is available to us by
redemption today. We can say is in the
context of redemption. Let us be guarded
by that. So we won't believe for
something that is of death or evil.
That's walking in the flesh. That will
be sponsored by demons. That will not be
by the ministry of angels. Our faith is
in the context of the life of God that
he has given unto us. Hallelujah.
Whatever is of the divine nature,
whatever is of the divine power, that's
what we can believe for. One of it
clearly is healing. Another we are
seeing is preservation.
Let's go a step further. Clearly in this
instance, Matthew 8, Matthew 14, it was
a command of faith and it was done. We
could also look at Mark 4, which is a
repeat of Matthew 8 quickly. Mark 4 and
verse let's read from 39. In verse 38
they are told the Lord teacher do you
not care that we are perishing? Then 39
the Lord arose and rebuked the wind and
said to the sea peace be still. That's
what he said. So it was a single command
of faith. Peace be still. And the wind
ceased and there was a great calm. And
he said to them, why are you so fearful?
How is it that you have no faith? So
Mark records the Lord as solving the
problem before rebuking them. Matthew
records it the other way but it's fine.
Usually in Matthew 14 as well the Lord
saved Peter then he rebuked him after.
So he said peace be still. Why are you
fearful? How is it that you have no
faith? It was a simple command of faith.
It was a simple command of faith and
there was preservation. Acts chapter 27
where there was a deliverance of Paul
and his co-traers.
We don't see any instance there was a
command of faith. Paul came out of
prayer and fasting and then he said he
knows now by the angel of the Lord they
are going to be preserved. Acts chapter
27 and verse we can see verse 10 where
he first told them men I perceive that
this voyage will end with disaster and
much loss not only of the cargo and ship
but also of our lives. So here his
reception was arguably not entirely
accurate. Some might say it was but
maybe after prayer it changed. It
depends. But subsequently after fasting
and prayer in Acts chapter 27 and verse
21 after a long abstinence from food
then Paul stood in the midst of them and
said men you should have listened to me
and not sailed from cit and incured this
disaster and loss. And now I urge you to
take heart for there shall be no loss of
life amongst you but only of the ship.
For there stood by me this night an
angel of the Lord of the God whom I
belong to and whom I serve, saying,"Do
not be afraid, Paul. You must be brought
before Caesar and indeed God has granted
you all those who sail with you." We
could almost say this way, they were
preserved on account of Paul because he
said God has granted him. So it seems
like he was praying about this situation
and there was preservation which will
bring us to the second part we want to
talk about. Whilst we see that by the
exercise of faith and in this sense I
mean the command of faith I'm not even
talking about faith standards we have
spoken of severally that preservation
was affected there is an heavy teaching
on the role of prayer not just the
command of faith inffecting preservation
it is so heavy that it cannot just be
easily ignored you may remember Acts 12
Peter's deliverance when he was in
prison we're told in Acts 12 and 5 that
constant prayer was made for Peter by
the church. Also, you may remember in an
earlier episode when we're looking at
Paul's deliverance here, we made
reference to second Corinthians chapter
1. And I'll wrap up there for this
episode. I'll pick it up in the next
one. The role of prayer in preservation
and deliverance and is still faith. And
it's going to show us the role of prayer
in faith generally even when we exercise
the command of faith. how it is usually
heavily backed by the role of faith
itself in prayer. And we're going to get
to that later. But let's wrap up with 2
Corinthians 1 and in verse 8. For I
don't want you to be ignorant, brethren,
of our trouble which came to us in Asia
that we were burdened beyond measure
above strength. So that we despared even
of life. So it was so tough. It was
beyond just what we could humanly
endure. So much so Paul says we despared
even of life. Yes, we had the sentence
of death in ourselves that we should not
trust in ourselves but in God who raises
the dead. That means it was beyond what
we could naturally handle. So we had to
trust in God. Now he said God who raises
the dead is reference to the
resurrection of the dead. The power of
God to raise the dead which is the power
of God to bring about immortality
incorruption as we have seen done in the
redemption accomplished by the Lord
Jesus. It says is what gives us
confidence for deliverance. Now I'll
read it again. He said not to trust in
oursel but in God who raised the dead
who delivered us from so great a death.
So the reign of death in any way shape
or form can be opposed by the redemption
or the redemptive work of Christ Jesus.
He said God delivered us from so great a
death does deliver us present tense in
whom we trust he will still deliver us.
So this was an ongoing state of faith
not one command of faith. Now how were
they exercising this trust in whom we
trust it will still deliver us. You also
helping together in prayer for us. Do
you notice you also means we are doing
that right? We are in prayer. You are
helping in prayer for us that thanks may
be given by many persons on our behalf
for the gifts granted to us through
many. So would have many people to thank
for what we are experiencing the
preservation and the deliverance we're
experiencing. There is an every role of
prayer in preservation deliverance. I
could say in faith generally before we
get to the command of faith at all and
we'll talk about that in the next
episode. For now God bless you. Fulfill
God's purpose and see you on the next
one.
>> We trust you are blessed by today's
episode. Do stay in faith about all
you've heard to walk in it. To learn
more of God's word, visit pleose.org.
You will find answers to your questions
on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how
to fulfill it. Whilst on our website,
don't forget to join the Plurose
community channel on WhatsApp, and
follow us on all our social media
handles at Plurose_hog.
For now, stay blessed and keep walking
in his purpose.